The D, D, and O'D Cookbook
--------------------------

These are some of our family recipes.	There weren't many dessert
recipes in here originally, since they were already in the Scout
cookbook, but more recent favorites have been added here. Many of
the recipes come from the magazines put out by Reiman Publications.
I particularly recommend their "Taste of Home" magazine.  They also
publish "Quick Cooking" and "Light and Tasty", which are also
devoted to recipes.  And their "Country" and "Country Extra"
magazines carry recipes along with other features.

I use egg substitute in nearly all baked goods calling for eggs —
mostly so that I don't have to worry about salmonella if my son
wants to lick the beaters, although the recipes will say "eggs".
If you do use real eggs, they should be the "large" size.  One
of the local supermarkets now carries pasteurized eggs, so I
sometimes use them instead of egg substitute.

I also usually use low-lactose calcium-enriched milk anywhere that
milk is called for, since I'm sensitive to lactose and that's what
I have on hand.

And, I use butter, rather than margarine, because I can taste the
difference.  But, if you can't use butter, most recipes will work
with margarine, too.

I never sift flour, or sift dry ingredients together, regardless of
what the recipe may say.  I measure flour by the "dip, level, pour"
method; and just stir the dry ingredients together when the recipe
says to sift.

Something to keep in mind when you see a recipe with especially
tedious instructions, such as "add 8 eggs, one at a time, beating
well after each addition" is that these recipes tend to be developed
by professional home economists who have nothing to do all day
except work in the kitchen — probably with top-notch equipment and
someone else to clean up.  So, they may try a dozen different ways
of making something, and will write up the recipe using the method
that gave the best result.  But, they're talking about the
difference between a rating of 9.9 and a rating of 10.0, which is
only discernable when you compare the two items side by side.
You're not going to do that — you're going to make it only one way.
If you take a shortcut, no one is going to complain that your cake
could have been one percent better.  When in doubt, I'll make it
their way the first time, just to give the recipe a fair test; but
I'm likely to streamline things if I make it repeatedly.

My oven is the old-fashioned kind with a pilot light, so it provides
a warm environment for putting yeast dough to rise.  If you don't
have that luxury, you can approximate it by putting a roasting pan
full of hot water on a rack below the one that your dough is on.
Another trick to keep in mind when you're in a hurry is to prewarm
the flour before mixing the dough and to prewarm the dish before
putting the dough in it.

I assume that you know to preheat the oven before baking anything
in it, so I generally don't specifically include that as a step in
the directions.  Similarly, if I just say "flour", I mean
all-purpose flour.  I will explicitly indicate if some other type
of flour is to be used.

Virginia L. Downes
April 8, 2012


The "Drinks" page presents some of my favorite cocktail recipes.

Arthur O'Dwyer
November 30, 2017

